```
PositionalId:
  - "qs1-st3"
National priority:
  - "yes"
First issued:
  - "01-06-2010"
Setting:
  - "f023a36e_2b46_40ae_b775_241126ab76bd"
  - "16764614_b99f_401e_b95c_d9721dd20825"
  - "80c545e4_a13c_4373_a530_18f0239ce548"
Age group:
  - "7cd6067c_4af1_411e_ba3c_39abac7633c8"
Service Area:
  - "04f2ccf4_c577_41c2_94e8_64e9a0d61a2c"
  - "734b5085_c648_4c46_8ff2_8836f6e0f437"
  - "488b1a36_ab26_4752_bc2e_1f988aae2da5"
  - "582539e8_e154_44a9_9ecb_5b5acd717098"
Condition or disease:
  - "14abd949_ba13_4814_9033_5ee0a81d7726"
  - "49004876_1a32_4e5a_91d3_826607130912"
```
Quality statement 3: Written and verbal information 
---------------------------------------------------

### Quality statement 

People newly diagnosed with dementia and/or their carers receive written
and verbal information about their condition, treatment and the support
options in their local area.

### Quality measure 

**Structure:** Evidence of local arrangements to ensure written
information on dementia is available to staff.

**Process:** Proportion of people newly diagnosed with dementia
receiving written and verbal information about their condition,
treatment and the support options in their local area.

Numerator – the number of people receiving written and verbal
information about their condition, treatment and the support options in
the local area.

Denominator – the number of people newly diagnosed with dementia.

### What the quality statement means for each audience 

**Service providers** ensure that written information about dementia,
treatment and local area support options is available to staff.

**Health and social care professionals** provide written and verbal
information about dementia, treatment and local area support options
once a diagnosis of dementia is established.

**Commissioners** ensure that services make available written information
about dementia, treatment and local area support options.

**People newly diagnosed with dementia** can expect to be provided with
written and verbal information about their condition, treatment and the
support options in their local area.

### Definitions 

Written information for patients can be found in the Department of
Health's [Who
cares?](http://webarchive.nationalarchives.gov.uk/20130107105354/http:/www.dh.gov.uk/en/Publicationsandstatistics/Publications/PublicationsPolicyAndGuidance/DH_078093)
booklet. Information about NICE guidance, written specifically for
patients can be found in [Dementia: information for the
public](http://www.nice.org.uk/guidance/cg42/informationforpublic) (NICE
clinical guideline 42, 2006).

### Data source 

**Structure:** Local data collection. Acute Trusts, Primary Care Trusts
and Mental Health Trusts can demonstrate processes for developing
written information via [NHS Litigation Authority Risk Management
Standards 4, criterion
2](http://www.nhsla.com/Pages/Publications.aspx?library=safety%7cstandards).

**Process:** Local data collection.


Setting:
  - "Care home"
  - "Outpatient clinic"
  - "Primary care setting"
Age group:
  - "Adults 65+ years"
Service area:
  - "Mental health care"
  - "Primary care"
  - "Secondary medical care"
  - "Social care"
Condition or disease:
  - "Mental health and behavioural conditions"
  - "Dementia"
